# Performance Checklist

Many users of educational game are on slow connections. We should be occasionally testing with [network throttling](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/chrome-devtools/network-performance/network-conditions) enabled (set to Slow 3G). Below is a checklist to ensure we're fully optimizing games:

* In the future, if games are ever given a refresh with new graphics, we need to ensure that we save the original, high-quality assets. Modifications to the originals should be saved in a different location, not overwriting the original.
* All background images (and images that do not require transparency), should be converted to web-optimized JPEGs if they're not already. There are many tools ([Photoshop](https://www.adobe.com/products/photoshop.html), [GIMP](https://www.gimp.org/), [Kraken](https://kraken.io/web-interface)) available that will automatically convert the image to JPEG and optimize it. Be careful not to over-optimize the image, causing it to become blurry. Typically, a "high" quality (or 60+/100) setting is preferred.
* Consider setting the TexurePacker texture format to PNG-8 when publishing sprite sheets. PNG-32 is typically not necessary unless you're working with very high-quality images.
* If you notice that an animation has hundreds (or thousands) of sprites that don't actually represent a change in the animation (in other words, they simply represent a time delay), those sprites should be removed and replaced by a programmatic time delay (`cc.delayTime`).
* Be mindful of combining resources that go unused in a game. Optimally resources should be tied to specific activities or subtemplates (as opposed to combining all template resources into one).
* In most cases, all assets (sprites, individual images, audio) should be preloaded. This is especially important for slow connections when playing games where audio timing is critical to the game play (see Tricycle Speedway game as an example, where it's impossible to play unless the audio is played in a timely manner). This makes the above point (separating templates) that much more important (so that we're not preloading tons of assets that do not get used). If a game has an extraordinary amount of assets (a hundred audio files that play different words, for example), we may want to discuss the best strategy for that specific game. For example, if most of those audio files are only occasionally used (e.g. random occurrence), we may decide not to preload them. Additionally, we'll want to make strategic decisions on when to cut back on the amount of audio used. For example, if there are 20 different audio files for a "correct answer" action, with only 1 of them being played randomly, we should discuss whether or not all 20 of those files are even necessary (i.e. maybe we only need to use 3 of them).
* Images should not be larger than 2048px. Otherwise, many mobile graphics cards will not be able to handle the image.
